+++
title = "Myeloid-related protein 8/14 and the risk of cardiovascular death or myocardial infarction after an acute coronary syndrome in the Pravastatin or Atorvastatin Evaluation and Infection Theraphy: Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (PROVE IT-TIMI 22) tria"
date = 2008-01-01
authors = ["D.A. Morrow", "Y. Wang", "K. Croce", "M. Sakuma", "M.S. Sabatine", "H. Gao", "A.D. Pradhan", "A.M. Healy", "J. Buros", "C.H. McCabe", "P. Libby", "C.P. Cannon", "E. Braunwald", "D.I. Simon"]
publication_types = ["2"]
abstract = "Background: Using a transcriptional profiling approach, we recently identified myeloid-related protein 8/14 (MRP-8/14) to be expressed by platelets during acute myocardial infarction (MI). Elevated concentrations of MRP-8/14 are associated with a higher risk for future cardiovascular events in apparently healthy individuals but have not been assessed with respect to prognosis in patients with acute coronary syndrome. Methods: We performed a nested case-control study (n = 237 case-control pairs) among patients enrolled in the Pravastatin or Atorvastatin Evaluation and Infection Theraphy: Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 22 (PROVE IT-TIMI 22) trial (mean follow-up 24 months) to investigate the risk of cardiovascular death or MI associated with MRP-8/14 measured at 30 days after an acute coronary syndrome. Results: Patients with cardiovascular death or MI after 30 days (cases) had higher median [25th, 75th percentile] MRP-8/14 levels than patients who remained free of recurrent events (5.6 [2.8, 13.5] mg/L vs 4.0 [1.9, 10.1] mg/L, P = .020). The risk of a recurrent cardiovascular event increased with each increasing quartile of MRP-8/14 (P-trend = 0.007) such that patients with the highest levels had a 2.0-fold increased odds (95% CI 1.1-3.6, P = .029) of a recurrent event after adjusting for standard risk indicators, randomized treatment, and C-reactive protein. Patients with elevated levels of MRP-8/14 and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein showed significantly increased risk of cardiovascular death or MI compared with patients with the lowest levels of both markers (adjusted odds ratio 2.1, 95% CI 1.2-3.8). Conclusions: Myeloid-related protein 8/14 may be a useful biomarker of platelet and inflammatory disease activity in atherothrombosis and may serve as a novel target for therapeutic intervention. textcopyright 2008."
selected = false
publication = "*American Heart Journal*"
doi = "10.1016/j.ahj.2007.08.018"
+++

