+++
title = "Hemodynamic Significance of Periprocedural Myocardial Injury Assessed With N-Terminal Pro-B-Type Natriuretic Peptide After Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in Patients With Stable and Unstable Coronary Artery Disease (from the JUMBO-TIMI 26 Trial)"
date = 2007-01-01
authors = ["M.P. Bonaca", "S.D. Wiviott", "M.S. Sabatine", "J. Buros", "S.A. Murphy", "B.M. Scirica", "N. Rifai", "E.M. Antman", "D.A. Morrow"]
publication_types = ["2"]
abstract = "The clinical relevance of periprocedural myocardial injury related to percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) remains controversial. N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP) is a sensitive indicator of hemodynamic stress and when increased is associated with higher mortality in patients with acute and chronic ischemic heart disease. We measured the serum level of NT-pro-BNP using the Elecsys 2010 proBNP assay at baseline, 4 to 6 hours, and 12 to 24 hours in 747 patients undergoing elective or urgent PCI and enrolled in the JUMBO-TIMI 26 trial. Periprocedural myocardial infarction (MI) was independently adjudicated and required a new increase in creatine kinase-MB textgreater3 times the upper limit of normal distinct from MI as the indication for PCI. Patients with procedural MI had significantly higher levels of NT-pro-BNP at 12 to 24 hours (405 vs 146 pg/ml, p textless0.001). Moreover, the greater increase in NT-pro-BNP in patients with periprocedural MI was independent of each clinical and other procedural correlates of NT-pro-BNP after PCI (p textless0.001). In addition, the magnitude of increase in NT-pro-BNP correlated strongly with extent of myocardial injury, including in patients with evidence of injury (creatine kinase-MB 1 to 3 times upper limit of normal) not meeting criteria for MI (p = 0.001) or low-level increase in troponin T (p = 0.001). In conclusion, periprocedural myocardial injury, even at low levels, during PCI is associated with increased hemodynamic stress as measured by increasing NT-pro-BNP. This finding supports the physiologic relevance of procedural MI and the continued effort to define therapies that decrease the risk of this complication. textcopyright 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."
selected = false
publication = "*American Journal of Cardiology*"
doi = "10.1016/j.amjcard.2006.08.035"
+++

