+++
title = "Association of Impaired Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction Myocardial Perfusion Grade With Ventricular Tachycardia and Ventricular Fibrillation Following Fibrinolytic Therapy for ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction"
date = 2008-01-01
authors = ["C.M. Gibson", "Y.B. Pride", "J.L. Buros", "E. Lord", "A. Shui", "S.A. Murphy", "D.S. Pinto", "P.J. Zimetbaum", "M.S. Sabatine", "C.P. Cannon", "M.E. Josephson"]
publication_types = ["2"]
abstract = "Objectives: The goal of this analysis was to evaluate the association of impaired Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction myocardial perfusion grade (TMPG) with sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF). Background: Impaired TMPG after successful restoration of epicardial flow among patients treated with fibrinolytic therapy for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) has been associated with adverse clinical outcomes, but its relationship to VT/VF has not been evaluated. Methods: In the CLARITY-TIMI 28 (Clopidogrel as Adjunctive Reperfusion Therapy-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction 28) study, 3,491 patients underwent angiography a median of 3.5 days after fibrinolytic administration for STEMI; TMPG was assessed, and its association with VT/VF was evaluated. Results: We observed VT/VF in 4.8% of patients. Impaired myocardial perfusion (TMPG 0/1/2) was associated with an increased incidence of VT/VF (7.1% vs. 2.6% with TMPG 3; log-rank p textless 0.001). Among patients with restoration of normal epicardial flow (Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction flow grade 3), the incidence of VT/VF was increased among patients with impaired TMPG (4.7% vs. 2.7%; p = 0.02). Among patients with left ventricular ejection fraction ≥30%, impaired TMPG remained associated with an increased incidence of VT/VF (4.7% vs. 2.5%; p = 0.03). We found that VT/VF was associated with increased mortality (25.2% vs. 3.5%; p textless 0.0001). Furthermore, among patients with VT/VF, impaired TMPG was associated with increased mortality (17.1% vs. 2.3%; p = 0.02). All but 1 death among patients who had VT/VF were among patients with impaired myocardial perfusion. Conclusions: Despite restoration of normal epicardial flow or a left ventricular ejection fraction ≥30%, impaired myocardial perfusion on angiography 3.5 days after fibrinolytic administration for STEMI is associated with an increased incidence of VT/VF. textcopyright 2008 American College of Cardiology Foundation."
selected = false
publication = "*Journal of the American College of Cardiology*"
doi = "10.1016/j.jacc.2007.08.061"
+++

