+++
title = "Meta-analysis confirms CR1, CLU, and PICALM as Alzheimer disease risk loci and reveals interactions with APOE genotypes"
date = 2010-01-01
authors = ["G. Jun", "A.C. Naj", "G.W. Beecham", "L.-S. Wang", "J. Buros", "P.J. Gallins", "J.D. Buxbaum", "N. Ertekin-Taner", "M.D. Fallin", "R. Friedland", "R. Inzelberg", "P. Kramer", "E. Rogaeva", "P. St George-Hyslop", "L.B. Cantwell", "B.A. Dombroski", "A.J. Saykin", "E.M. Reiman", "D.A. Bennett", "J.C. Morris", "K.L. Lunetta", "E.R. Martin", "T.J. Montine", "A.M. Goate", "D. Blacker", "D.W. Tsuang", "D. Beekly", "L.A. Cupples", "H. Hakonarson", "W. Kukull", "T.M. Foroud", "J. Haines", "R. Mayeux", "L.A. Farrer", "M.A. Pericak-Vance", "G.D. Schellenberg"]
publication_types = ["2"]
abstract = "Objectives: To determine whether genotypes at CLU, PICALM, and CR1 confer risk for Alzheimer disease (AD) and whether risk for AD associated with these genes is influenced by apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotypes. Design: Association study ofADand CLU, PICALM, CR1, and APOE genotypes. Setting: Academic research institutions in the United States, Canada, and Israel. Participants: Seven thousand seventy cases with AD, 3055 with autopsies, and 8169 elderly cognitively normal controls, 1092 with autopsies, from 12 different studies, including white, African American, Israeli-Arab, and Caribbean Hispanic individuals. Results: Unadjusted, CLU (odds ratio [OR], 0.91; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.85-0.96 for single-nucleotide polymorphism [SNP] rs11136000), CR1 (OR, 1.14; 95% CI, 1.07-1.22; SNP rs3818361), and PICALM (OR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.84-0.94, SNP rs3851179) were associated with AD in white individuals. None were significantly associated with AD in the other ethnic groups. APOE$epsilon$4 was significantly associated with AD (ORs, 1.80-9.05) in all but 1 small white cohort and in the Arab cohort. Adjusting for age, sex, and the presence of at least 1 APOE$epsilon$4 allele greatly reduced evidence for association with PICALM but not CR1 or CLU. Models with the main SNP effect, presence or absence of APOE$epsilon$4, and an interaction term showed significant interaction between presence or absence of APOE$epsilon$4 and PICALM. Conclusions: We confirm in a completely independent data set that CR1, CLU, and PICALM are AD susceptibility loci in European ancestry populations. Genotypes at PICALM confer risk predominantly in APOE $epsilon$4-positive subjects. Thus, APOE and PICALM synergistically interact. textcopyright2010 American Medical Association. All rights reserved."
selected = false
publication = "*Archives of Neurology*"
doi = "10.1001/archneurol.2010.201"
+++

