+++
title = "Efficacy of Ranolazine in Patients With Chronic Angina. Observations From the Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled MERLIN-TIMI (Metabolic Efficiency With Ranolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST-Segment Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes) 36 Trial"
date = 2009-01-01
authors = ["S.R. Wilson", "B.M. Scirica", "E. Braunwald", "S.A. Murphy", "E. Karwatowska-Prokopczuk", "J.L. Buros", "B.R. Chaitman", "D.A. Morrow"]
publication_types = ["2"]
abstract = "Objectives: We aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ranolazine in a larger and more diverse group of patients with angina than previously studied. Background: Ranolazine is an antianginal shown to reduce angina and improve exercise performance in selected patients with early-positive exercise testing and those with frequent angina. Methods: We investigated the antianginal effects of ranolazine in the subgroup of patients with prior chronic angina (n = 3,565, 54%) enrolled in the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled MERLIN-TIMI (Metabolic Efficiency With Ranolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes) 36 trial of patients with acute coronary syndrome. Follow-up was a median of 350 days. Results: Patients with prior angina received evidence-based therapy (95% aspirin, 78% statins, 89% beta-blockers, average 2.9 antianginal agents). The primary end point (cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, recurrent ischemia) was less frequent with ranolazine (hazard ratio [HR]: 0.86; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.75 to 0.97; p = 0.017), due entirely to a significant reduction in recurrent ischemia (HR: 0.78; 95% CI: 0.67 to 0.91; p = 0.002). Ranolazine also reduced worsening angina (HR: 0.77; 95% CI: 0.59 to 1.00; p = 0.048) and intensification of antianginal therapy (HR: 0.77; 95% CI: 0.64 to 0.92, p = 0.005). Exercise duration at 8 months was greater with ranolazine (514 s vs. 482 s, p = 0.002). Cardiovascular death or myocardial infarction did not differ between treatment groups (HR: 0.97; 95% CI: 0.80 to 1.16; p = 0.71). Symptomatic documented arrhythmias (2.9% vs. 2.9%, p = 0.92) and total mortality (6.2% vs. 6.4%, p = 0.96) were similar with ranolazine or placebo. Conclusions: In this largest study of ranolazine in patients with established coronary artery disease, ranolazine was effective in reducing angina with favorable safety in a substantially broader group of patients with angina than previously studied. (Metabolic Efficiency With Ranolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes; NCT00099788). textcopyright 2009 American College of Cardiology Foundation."
selected = false
publication = "*Journal of the American College of Cardiology*"
tags = ["[angina", "exercise tolerance", "ranolazine", "recurrent"]
doi = "10.1016/j.jacc.2009.01.037"
+++

